# Today's developers

In today's economy, you can't expect to spend your career working on one
project: more and more work is being digitalized & automated to some degree in
a search for productivity and ease of use. It is becoming more and more
important to know what you want to be successful.

That's the case for Antoine Hottin, who works at Evitech, a SMB (TN: Small and
Medium size Business, PME or Petite et Moyenne Entreprise) of about 20
employees. They create "intelligent video surveillance solutions" targeted for
the private security sector.

Hottin's current position is entitle "Study and Development Engineer". If that
seems like a vague title, it's for good cause: "my role at the company can and
does change according to the project opportunities we receive" he states. He
has worked on a variety of these projects, from adding functionality to
existing licences to conceiving entire new products for the industry.

Software developers are flooded with companies and professionals looking to
replace or improve part of their workflow with software, many of a scale
requiring teams and an array of skills to implement.

While he has no qualms tinkering away for a couple of weeks at features for
clients, it's these massive projects requiring months of work that Hottin has
come to enjoy. "Software engineering is often a team undertaking" he says.
Given that different projects can take wildly different amounts of time, they
are often overlapping. Add to that the constant maintenance & consulting
Evitech offers, and you have work for everyone, all the time. "You naturally
come to interact with many people over the course of time as you find yourself
together on different projects" he adds. This "human element" has also proved
to be beneficial, granting him "valuable experience" in management and project
leadership.

Hottin came to work for Evitech a couple of years ago. "I realized after
obtaining my diploma that I was in a favorable position on the job market." he
recalls. However, most job offers he looked at weren't aligned with his
interests, notably because of the "short term vision" their projects presented.
"I thus focused my search on software editors with 'human' team sizes, which
led me to find Evitech." he recounts.

When asked why Evitech in particular, Hottin cites two reasons. "[Software
editors] allow for long-term projection of their product's evolution, that's
for sure. That's not the only advantage, however" he remarks. "Even though our
core product is intelligent image analysis, there are a variety of aspects this
encompasses and an even greater variety of tasks this manifests as. Hottin
lists "licensing, consulting, custom user interfaces and feature requests, as
well as installation and setup for events and 'important sites' (government and
historical sites for example)" as projects he's worked on.

However, he's also realized that the domain and nature of the work you do is
not the only factor in whether or not you find your work fulfilling. As stated
earlier, he has developed a taste for leading projects with a team, and is
interested in opportunities to direct more projects of such a scale. However,
small businesses don't always offer many possibilities for personal
advancement. "The higher posts are very often occupied by the founders and
directors" he laments. That's why, while he enjoys numerous aspects of his
work, he "keeps an eye on the job market for opportunities that would
correspond to [his] career objectives."
